# Teaspoons Low Pass WGS Imputation Pipeline Overview

## Purpose
We want an internal doc we can refer to for a refresher on the Low Pass WGS Imputation (also known as the BGE or GLIMPSE) pipeline.  This will describe the pipeline inputs/outputs as well as pointers to all the different wdls involved in the pipeline.


## Developer Information
### [Flight](https://github.com/DataBiosphere/terra-scientific-pipelines-service/tree/main/service/src/main/java/bio/terra/pipelines/stairway/flights/wdlbasedpipelinerun)
All low pass imputation pipelines use the same flight. This flight expects a variety of inputs so that it can be configured properly. Some of the more important ones.

* Pipeline Inputs
  * From pipeline_input_definitions table
* Pipeline outputs
  * From pipeline_output_definitions table
* User inputs
  * From pipeline_inputs table
* Quota consumed wdl
  * Generated using the [ToolConfigService](https://github.com/DataBiosphere/terra-scientific-pipelines-service/blob/main/service/src/main/java/bio/terra/pipelines/service/ToolConfigService.java) while creating the [flight](https://github.com/DataBiosphere/terra-scientific-pipelines-service/blob/main/service/src/main/java/bio/terra/pipelines/service/PipelineRunsService.java) (in the startPipelineRun function)
* QC wdl
  * Same as Quota consumed wdl
* Pipeline Wdl
  * Same as quota consumed wdl
* Pipeline version
  * From the prepare payload (stored in the pipeline_runs table)

This flight will first write all the inputs the wdl(s) need to the data tables in the runner workspace. It will then launch a quota consumed wdl submission to make sure the user has enough quota to run their pipeline.  Then it launches a QC wdl submission to make sure the users inputs pass all of our QC checks.  It will then launch the pipeline wdl.  Once that completes it will write the outputs to the pipeline_outputs table and mark the pipeline run as a success.  Any differences between what wdls to run and what inputs/outputs to expect are all driven by the pipeline version supplied to the flight.

## Pipeline Versions
### v1
#### Changelog
This is the initial version of the pipeline.  The underlying [WDL](https://broadinstitute.github.io/warp/docs/Pipelines/Glimpse2LowpassImputation_Pipeline/README) versions started at 1.0.0

#### Wdls
* Quota Consumed -https://github.com/broadinstitute/warp/blob/develop/pipelines/wdl/glimpse/low_pass_imputation/Glimpse2LowPassImputationQuotaConsumed.wdl
* Input QC -  https://github.com/broadinstitute/warp/blob/develop/pipelines/wdl/glimpse/low_pass_imputation/input_qc/Glimpse2LowPassImputationQC.wdl
* Pipeline - https://github.com/broadinstitute/warp/blob/develop/pipelines/wdl/glimpse/low_pass_imputation/Glimpse2LowPassImputation.wdl

#### Pipeline Inputs
* cramManifest
  * Required
  * This is a tsv file containing all the crams to be imputed.  It expects 3 headers - 'cram_path', 'cram_index_path', and 'sample_id'
* outputBasename
  * Required
  * Basename for outputs generated by pipeline
* infoFilterForInclusion
  * Optional
  * Default: 0.0
  * This will filter out any variants from the outputs whose INFO value is below the number provided
* contigs
  * list of contigs to process
  * service provided
* referencePanelPrefix
  * prefix for reference panel path
  * service provided
* fasta
  * reference fasta
  * service provided
* fastaIndex
  * reference fasta index
  * service provided
* refDict
  * reference dictionary
  * service provided
* pipelineHeaderLine
  * header line to add to output vcf that contains pipeline + version information
  * service provided

#### Pipeline Outputs
* imputedVcf
  * A multi-sample VCF file containing imputed genotypes for all samples
* imputedVcfIndex
  * The index file for imputedVcf
* imputedHomRefSitesOnlyVcf
  * A sites only VCF file containing information about homozygous reference sites
* imputedHomRefSitesOnlyVcfIndex
  * The index file for imputedHomRefSitesOnlyVcf
* qcMetrics
  * A TSV file containing sample level qc metrics about the imputed data
